[WIP]Proposal of rollout interperter mechanism (#5056)
karmada-io/karmada: docs/proposals/rollout/README.md

kind: ResourceBinding
metadata:
  name: rollout-demo-deployment
spec:
  clusters: # scheduled to 2 clusters
    - name: cluster-1
      replicas: 4
    - name: cluster-2
      replicas: 6
```

We expect that the Deployment Rolling Update with 2 maxUnavailable and 1 maxSurge will be scheduled to 2 clusters, and the rollout process will be consistent with the semantics in a single-cluster setting.
During rolling processing, the number of unavailable Pods will not exceed 2, and the number of Pods will not exceed 11.

#### Story #2: Batch Release with Partition
```yaml
apiVersion: apps.kruise.io/v1alpha1
kind: CloneSet
metadata:
  name: rollout-demo
spec:
  replicas: 10
  updateStrategy:
    partition: 4
    maxUnavailable: 2
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollout-demo
    spec:
      containers:
        - name: main
          image: nginx:v2 # upgrade rollout-demo from V1 -> V2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: rollout-demo
---
apiVersion: karmada.io/v1alpha2
kind: ResourceBinding
metadata:
  name: rollout-demo-cloneset
spec:
  clusters: # scheduled to 2 clusters
    - name: cluster-1
      replicas: 3
    - name: cluster-2
      replicas: 7
```

> We expect that the CloneSet cloud be paused when the number of Pods with the new image reaches 4, and the rollout process will be consistent with the semantics in a single-cluster setting. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We expect the CloneSet updating to be paused when the number of Pods with the new image reaches 6, and the rollout process should be consistent with the semantics in a single-cluster setting. 
```
I'm unfamiliar with the CloneSet, please correct me if I'm wrong.
Given [the partition](https://openkruise.io/docs/user-manuals/cloneset#partition) is the `desired number or percent of Pods in old revisions`, so I guess the CloneSet will be paused when the number of new Pods reaches 6(10 - partition). Isn't?

Author: > I'm unfamiliar with the CloneSet, please correct me if I'm wrong. Given [the partition](https://openkruise.io/docs/user-manuals/cloneset#partition) is the `desired number or percent of Pods in old revisions`, so I guess the CloneSet will be paused when the number of new Pods reaches 6(10 - partition). Isn't?

yes

> During rolling processing, the number of unavailable Pods will not exceed 2.

Reviewer 2: `the number of unavailable Pods will not exceed 2.`
Ditto, the description is somewhat ambiguous.

### Risks and Mitigations

<!--
What are the risks of this proposal, and how do we mitigate? 

How will security be reviewed, and by whom?

How will UX be reviewed, and by whom?

Consider including folks who also work outside the SIG or subproject.
-->

> - May further reduce the efficiency of distribution synchronization of workloads.

Reviewer 2: This is meant to lengthen the release time, right?

Author: yes

## Architecture
The primary approach involves using feedback from the StatusController on single-cluster workload statuses to derive the next rollout configurations. This ensures that throughout the Rollout process, rollout configurations such as `Partition`, `MaxUnavailable`, and `MaxSurge` maintain their original native meanings, and that the federated Rollout behavior aligns with single-cluster  practices.

> 

Reviewer 2: What situations can determine that all rounds have ended, and the current batch release has been completed?

Author: when all rollout target (e.g., partition) are achieved.

> ![architecture](rollout-mechanism-arch.png)

Reviewer: It would be great if we could have more detailed instructions to demonstrate the process.

## Changes required

<!--
This section should contain enough information that the specifics of your
change are understandable. This may include API specs (though not always
required) or even code snippets. If there's any ambiguity about HOW your
proposal will be implemented, this is the place to discuss them.
-->

### Code Changes required
- New Methods in Resource Interpreter
```golang
package resourceinterpreter

type ResourceInterpreter interface {
	// Get & Set for Partition
	GetPartition(object *unstructured.Unstructured) (*intstr.IntOrString, error)
	RevisePartition(object *unstructured.Unstructured, partition *intstr.IntOrString) (*unstructured.Unstructured, error)

	// Get & Set for MaxSurge

> 	GetMaxSurge(object *unstructured.Unstructured) (*intstr.IntOrString, error)

Reviewer 3: Is this proposal compatible with https://github.com/argoproj/argo-rollouts/blob/master/pkg/apis/rollouts/v1alpha1/types.go#L255-L279 ?

	ReviseMaxSurge(object *unstructured.Unstructured, maxSurge *intstr.IntOrString) (*unstructured.Unstructured, error)

	// Get & Set for MaxUnavailble
	GetMaxUnavailable(object *unstructured.Unstructured) (*intstr.IntOrString, err error)
	ReviseMaxUnavailable(object *unstructured.Unstructured, maxUnavailable *intstr.IntOrString) (*unstructured.Unstructured, error)

> 	RolloutInterperter

Reviewer: As we talked at the community meeting, the rollout algorithm may not be an interpreter, it can leverage the interpreter to get/set things like `MaxUnavailable`.

}
```

- New Interpreter for Rollout
```golang
package rolloutinterpreter
type RolloutInterperter interface {
	ReviseRolloutConfigurations(resourceTemplate *unstructured.Unstructured, workloads *map[string]*unstructured.Unstructured, works map[string]*workv1alpha1.Work) (map[string]*unstructured.Unstructured, error)
}

type universalRolloutInterperter struct {
}

func (uri *universalRolloutInterperter) ReviseRolloutConfigurations(resourceTemplate *unstructured.Unstructured, workloads *map[string]*unstructured.Unstructured, works map[string]*workv1alpha1.Work) (map[string]*unstructured.Unstructured, error) {
	modifiedWorkloads := make(map[string]*unstructured.Unstructured, len(workloads))
	/*
	   1. calculate partition for each workload if has partition interperter
	   2. calculate maxUnavailble for each workload if has maxUnavailable interperter
	   3. calculate maxSurge for each workload if has maxSurge interperter

> 	   4. patch these calculated fields to each workload

Reviewer: It's unclear to me yet if we need to parse anything from the status, like `updatedReplicas`, `readyReplicas`, etc?
If yet, brings another challenge that we need to `interpret` the status.

> 	   4. patch these calculated fields to each workload

Reviewer 2: Does this part need to be interpreted by the interpreter so that the user can customize the logic?

Author: The caculation algorithm is universal for most type workloads, so users needn't to customize the logic.
